#trivial Update docs (#2016)
justeat/fozzie-components: stories/guides/fozzie/fozzie-migration-guide.stories.mdx

<Meta title="Documentation/Guides/Fozzie/Fozzie Migration Guide"/>

> # Fozzie version 9 Migration guide for consuming applications

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Fozzie version 9 Migration guide
```

> If you are upgrading from an older version of fozzie – i.e v8 and older – then this migration guide will help you update to the latest version (v9) which uses `dart-sass` as opposed to `node-sass`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you are upgrading from an older version of fozzie – i.e v8 and older – then this migration guide will help you update to the latest version (v9) which uses `dart-sass` as opposed to `node-sass`.
```

> <a name="scheme"></a><h2>Prerequisites</h2>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<a name="prerequisites"></a><h2>Prerequisites</h2>
```

Before you get started with the Fozzie SCSS helper library there are a few things you need to know in order to get up and running.

From v9 and above, you'll need the following:

1. [dart-sass](https://sass-lang.com/dart-sass):

>     - Fozzie makes use of new SCSS syntax to compile your Sass (namely `@use` & `@forward`). The [sass](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sass) module now uses dart-sass by default, so if you use the latest version of this module, you'll be fine.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    - Fozzie makes use of new SCSS syntax to compile your Sass (namely `@use` & `@forward`). The [sass](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sass) module now uses `dart-sass` by default, so if you use the latest version of this module, you'll be fine.
```

2. [webpack](https://webpack.js.org/) (or a similar file bundler)
    - For file resolution paths into the `node_modules` folder. If you aren't using Webpack, then you can use something like [ParcelJs](https://parceljs.org/) instead, which also supports this.

> <a name="scheme"></a><h2>Removing node-sass in favour of sass</h2>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<a name="removing-node-sass"></a><h2>Removing node-sass in favour of sass</h2>
```

> If you’re a user of Node Sass, migrating to Dart Sass is straightforward: just replace `node-sass` in your package.json file with `sass`. Both packages expose the same JavaScript API.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you use Node Sass, migrating to Dart Sass is straightforward; just replace `node-sass` in your `package.json` file with `sass`. Both packages expose the same JavaScript API.
```

```
// Package.json example

Before:
---
{
  "name": "Example",
  "version": "0.0.1",
  "description": "Example",
  "devDependencies": {
    "node-sass": "5.0.0", << Old node-sass.
  }
}

After:
---
{
  "name": "Example",
  "version": "0.0.1",
  "description": "Example",
  "devDependencies": {
    "sass": "1.52.3", << node-sass changed for `sass`
  }
}
```

> If you have an old version of `fozzie` installed within your application at this point, you will likely see some syntax errors. In order to resolve these issue you will need to move to `v9` of `fozzie` which currently sits in [beta](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@justeat/fozzie/v/9.0.0-beta.5).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have an old version of `fozzie` included within your application at this point, you will likely see some syntax errors. In order to resolve these issues you will need to move to `v9` of `fozzie`, which currently sits in [beta](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@justeat/fozzie/v/9.0.0-beta.5).
```

This version of `fozzie` contains changes which will automatically resolve those errors.

> <a name="scheme"></a><h2>How to move from `@import` to `@use` & `@forward`</h2>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<a name="use-and-forward"></a><h2>How to move from `@import` to `@use` & `@forward`</h2>
```

> Once you have moved over to `dart-sass` and switched to the new version of fozzie (v9). You can begin to update your application with the new `@use` & `@forward` syntax. If you are unfamiliar with how `@use` & `@forward` work there's a useful video found [here](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CR-a8upNjJ0&ab_channel=KevinPowell) worth watching first.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have moved over to `dart-sass` and switched to the new version of fozzie (v9). You can begin to update your application with the new `@use` & `@forward` syntax. If you are unfamiliar with how `@use` & `@forward` work, we'd recommend [watching this video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=CR-a8upNjJ0&ab_channel=KevinPowell) first.
```

Assuming a common Vue application structure, we will look at each individually:

```
┣ layouts
    ┣ default.vue
    ┣ anotherPage.vue
┣ assets
    ┣ scss
        ┣ common.scss
```

### Common.scss

```
┣ assets
    ┣ scss
        ┣ common.scss
```

> You may have a file like `Common.scss` that will usually contain all of the shared styles required throughout an application. If this is the case you should have a setup like below which effectively imports `fozzie` and other helper files making them globally available throughout the application.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You may have a file like `common.scss` that will usually contain all of the shared styles required throughout an application. If this is the case you should have a setup like below which effectively imports `fozzie` and other helper files making them globally available throughout the application.
```

> You may have a file like `common.scss` that will usually contain all of the shared styles required throughout an application. If this is the case you should have a setup like below which effectively imports `fozzie` and other helper files making them globally available throughout the application.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You may have a file like `common.scss` that contains all of the shared styles required throughout an application. If this is the case, you should have a setup like below which effectively imports `fozzie` and other helper files, making them globally available throughout the application.
```

#### Old way (@import):
```
@import '~@justeat/fozzie/src/scss/fozzie';

@include normalize();
@include reset();
@include typography();
@include links();
@include trumps-utilities();
```

#### New way (@use / @forward):

> With the new way to import or "use / forward" scss files we can change the above to the following:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With the new way to import or `@use`/`@forward` scss files we can change the above to the following:
```

> With the new way to import or `@use`/`@forward` scss files we can change the above to the following:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Using the new `@use`/`@forward` syntax, we can change the above to the following:
```

```
@use '~@justeat/fozzie/src/scss/fozzie' as f;

@include f.normalize();
@include f.reset();
@include f.typography();
@include f.links();
@include f.trumps-utilities();
```

> `Note` the namespacing references, there's more on how namespacing works [here](https://sass-lang.com/documentation/at-rules/use#choosing-a-namespace). If you have scss files like a header and footer shared across your application stored in your common.scss directory then you would simply @forward these on to be used within the Vue single file component like so:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
`Note` the namespacing references, there's more on how namespacing works [here](https://sass-lang.com/documentation/at-rules/use#choosing-a-namespace). If you have scss files like a header and footer shared across your application stored in your common.scss directory then you would simply `@forward` these on to be used within the Vue single file component like so:
```

> `Note` the namespacing references, there's more on how namespacing works [here](https://sass-lang.com/documentation/at-rules/use#choosing-a-namespace). If you have scss files like a header and footer shared across your application stored in your common.scss directory then you would simply `@forward` these on to be used within the Vue single file component like so:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`Note` the namespacing references, you can read more [on how namespacing works here](https://sass-lang.com/documentation/at-rules/use#choosing-a-namespace).

If you have scss files like a header and footer shared across your application stored in your `common.scss` directory, then you would simply `@forward` these on to be used within the Vue single file component like so:
```

```
// common.scss

@forward '@justeat/f-header/dist/f-header.css';
@forward '@justeat/f-footer/dist/f-footer.css';

// Single File Component (SFC)
// default.vue

<style lang="scss">
@use '../assets/scss/common';
</style>

```

> <a name="scheme"></a><h2>Vue config</h2>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<a name="vue-config"></a><h2>Vue config</h2>
```

> Your application may load in a common.scss file at `vue.config` level (see below) & [here](https://github.com/justeat/fozzie-components/blob/master/packages/components/organisms/f-header/vue.config.js#L21), if that's the case you can still make use of `@use`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Your application may load in a `common.scss` file at the `vue.config` level (see below) & [here](https://github.com/justeat/fozzie-components/blob/master/packages/components/organisms/f-header/vue.config.js#L21). If that's the case you can still make use of `@use`:
```
